---
title : "Application for the 2020 Premio Rafael Manzano Summer School"
author: "Pedro P. Palazzo"
date  : 2020-04-14
---

- [Motivation letter](#motivation-letter)
- [Work samples](#work-samples)
- [Exposition of interest](#exposition-of-interest)

Motivation letter
=================

I am an architectural historian and historic preservationist
specialising in the heritage and theories of Brazil and the Portuguese
speaking world. Over the past two years, I have focused on the continued
links between Portugal and Brazil throughout and beyond the colonial
period, up to the traditionalist movements of the early twentieth
century. The Azores have played a major role as a stepping stone and
testing grounds for these transatlantic architectural exchanges in both
directions, a role I studied during the sabbatical year I am presently
spending as a visiting scholar at the University of Coimbra, Portugal.
The traditional architecture of the Azores therefore bears a particular
interest to my research, all the while I consider myself able to
contribute positively to the Summer School.

I have over a decade of teaching experience in architectural history
proposing analysis and contextual design assignments similar to those
featured in the Premio Rafael Manzano Summer School. My previous
experience with another Rafael Manzano Summer School was very positive
and I was glad to take the opportunity to work on the same level as the
young students. This has furthermore assisted me in planning for the
establishment of an INTBAU chapter in Brazil, which I expect in turn to
allow us to plan similar Summer Schools there.

More strictly to the point of the 2020 Summer School, I am eager to
acquire a first-hand experience of the geographical, urban, and
architectural patterns of the Azores as they have emerged and persisted
over the past five centuries. The prospect of lending a hand to the
preservation of the traditional settlement patterns in a region
threatened by industrial ranching and mass tourism, not to mention rural
exodus, is an invaluable validation of our lifelong commitment to the
study of architecture.

The contributions I expect to bring to the group that takes part in the
Azores Summer School are primarily centred on my teaching and research
experience, namely: familiarity with the wider context of traditional
Portuguese architecture and urbanism, including the methods I commonly
use to analyse it, such as building typology and urban
morphology---though I am also familiar with the New Urbanist concept of
the urban and architectural transects, which should prove equally
valuable as an analytical and design tool. Having participated in and
led research and design teams throughout my career, I can also bring to
the table time and task management skills, especially with regard to
efficient rendering and sketching techniques.

Should I be selected to take part as a student in the Azores Summer
School, I am eager to contribute in every aspect I may be found useful,
including before and after the course itself.

Work samples
============

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/n3Zm4oHGRkrn3i3/preview"
caption="Proposed plan of Beirã. Marvão Summer School, 2018 "
alt="Proposed plan of Beirã. Marvão Summer School, 2018" %}

{% include fig.html caption='Title image for the <em>Arquitetura
tradicional do Brasil</em> project, <a
href="http://instagram.com/arqtrad/">@arqtrad on Instagram</a>'
alt="Title image for the Arquitetura tradicional do Brasil project"
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/S3z7ogYLqQPP5yr/preview" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/wbAxYqgDzoTxYaY/preview" caption="Part
of a housing compound for an extended family in Brasilia, Brazil.
Conceptual design stage. Façade" alt="Part of a housing compound for an
extended family in Brasilia, Brazil. Conceptual design stage. Façade "
%}

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/i5mq5CaXtqdoNLb/preview" caption="Part
of a housing compound for an extended family in Brasilia, Brazil. This
project uses a proportional grid based on the traditional Portuguese
yard (*braça* = 1.1 metre). Conceptual design stage. First floor plan"
alt="Part of a housing compound for an extended family in Brasilia,
Brazil." %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/QcfdMFKNyYLNaXR/preview" caption="Part
of a housing compound for an extended family in Brasilia, Brazil.
Conceptual design stage. Second floor plan" alt="Part of a housing
compound for an extended family in Brasilia, Brazil. Conceptual design
stage. Second floor plan" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/spXzaB9Ezztk3Jr/preview"
caption="Study sketch in Montemor-o-Velho, Portugal, 2019" alt="Study
sketch in Montemor-o-Velho, Portugal, 2019" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/3g55BNbt3y2FD2b/preview"
caption="Study sketch in Castelo de Vide, Portugal. Marvão Summer
School, 2018" alt="Study sketch in Castelo de Vide, Portugal. Marvão
Summer School, 2018" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://www.integra.unb.br/s/M2SSqJQ8qa9acN7/preview"
caption="Study sketch of Vitruvius's basilica at Fano, 2019" alt="Study
sketch of Vitruvius's basilica at Fano, 2019" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://live.staticflickr.com/3862/14477022670_11452987a9_c_d.jpg"
caption="Former Jesuit church of S. Lourenço, Porto, 2014" alt="Former
Jesuit church of S. Lourenço, Porto, 2014" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://live.staticflickr.com/1800/30222691318_82227ebdcd_c_d.jpg"
caption="S. Antão church, Évora, 2018" alt="S. Antão church, Évora,
2018" %}

{% include fig.html
src="https://live.staticflickr.com/1813/30222912708_fd9290f177_c_d.jpg"
caption="Elvas cathedral, 2018" alt="Elvas cathedral, 2018" %}


Exposition of interest
======================

I have followed the activities of the Premio Rafael Manzano over several
years, motivated by an interest in the present applicability of
traditional crafts, forms, and design processes. The work of Mr Manzano
and the prize recipients evidence the cultural and economic improvement
traditional architecture can bring to our communities.

Over the past two years, I have had the chance to follow the activities
of the Premio Rafael Manzano more closely, taking part in the Summer
School and attending seminars and celebrations. These opportunities have
heightened my resolve to foster the discourse and practice of
traditional architecture in my home country, Brazil. I find Mr Manzano's
lifelong dedication to historic preservation as well as the familiar
work of the Portuguese prize recipients---José Baganha, Alberto Castro
Nunes, and António Maria Braga---particularly inspiring to me and to the
Brazilian context.

The publications of the Premio Rafael Manzano, additionally, have
encouraged my present research and advocacy work in reconciling sound
scholarship in architectural history and theory with contemporary
issues.

