---
author: "Pedro P. Palazzo"
date  : "25 November 2020"
lang  : en-GB
layout: page
include-before:
- |
  ```{=latex}
  \begin{letter}{%
    Admissions committee\\
    MSc Architecture, Urbanism and Building Sciences\\
    Technische Universiteit Delft
  }
  \opening{Dear members of the admissions committee,}
  \thispagestyle{fancy}
  ```
include-after:
- |
  ```{=latex}
  \closing{Sincerely,}
  \end{letter}
  \vfill
  ```
---

It is my pleasure to recommend Julia Ferreira Vilanova for the MSc
Architecture, Urbanism and Building Sciences at the Technische
Universiteit Delft. I taught Ms Vilanova as an undergraduate at the
University of Brasilia Bachelor program in Architecture and Urbanism in
three architectural history courses from 2011 to 2014, and was the
advisor of her undergraduate dissertation in 2016.

In all our academic interactions, Ms Vilanova showed great dedication to
study and research, attention to detail both in content and form, and
increasing critical thinking. In my architectural history courses, she
excelled in both group projects and individual assignments, and
participated regularly in class discussions by making helpful comments
and asking relevant, even challenging, questions. At each semester, her
grades were among the top three in her class.

Near the conclusion of her studies, in 2016, Ms Vilanova chose as her
dissertation topic a review of the neoliberal ideology in contemporary
"starchitecture". She was overall very self-reliant in her work,
producing a sound review of the relevant bibliography together with
thoughtful criticism of her subject. The completed work was well
structured, showing clear writing and a sound argument. I would rank her
work among the top ten undergraduate dissertations I advised or
evaluated in my teaching career over more than a decade.

Ms Vilanova is thus a thorough, methodical, and cultured architect,
highly competent in the domain of research. She is no doubt on track to
achieving success as either a practitioner or a critic and theorist.

Additionally, I would like to stress the burgeoning ties among both our
schools. Over the past few years, the University of Brasilia has hosted
lectures by TU Delft architectural faculty, and sent our own faculty on
visiting scholarships to TU Delft.

Please do not hesitate to contact me should you have any further
inquiries about Ms Vilanova.
